all right so we've now got an app that
can display information from an RSS feed
and we've customized the display by
creating our own custom adapter now at
the moment it only displays the same
feed now that's still useful because you
can quickly check the feed to see what's
changed but it would be better if we
could choose from a list of fees and
display any of them when we wanted to so
to do that we're going to create a menu
for our app so the focus of the next few
videos is going to be how to work with
Android menus now before I start with
the menus though I want to clean up our
log cut a bit then we're going to be
using it to see what's going on but at
the moment it gets some you know a bit
full of the data that we're downloading
and parsing now that we've established
that that all works we're not going to
need to keep that logging and all that
information and by the way that's
something that you'll do as a developer
you'll lock parts of your code and once
it's all working you'll comment out or
remove entirely the logging and add it
in other places that stops the lock from
getting huge and hard to navigate all
right so what I'm going to look at is
our past applications class and I'm
going to comment out the logging code
for the starting and ending tags and if
we have a look here we've got paths
starting let's comment that out online
now 33 it also down here where it's
ending it's a comment that out on line
42 as well and let's also have a look at
the for loop and that'll be on line 60
where are we 65 here let's actually
comment out the logging for that it's
much more common at the whole loop
because it was only really there to log
things so we'll come at those four lines
out line 65 three lines 68 all right so
let's go back to main activity now and
what we want to do is have a look at our
on post execute method here and we've
already committed that out by the looks
so I'm just going to actually delete
that line I'll just make sure that that
is commented out clever no longer need
any logging about that and the other
thing to note here is just to clean up
have a look in your imports there in my
case it's already removed but if you
haven't got Android studio set up to do
this automatically you want to remove
the ANU
arrayadapter important thought that says
android app widget dot arrayadapter
and again in my case it's been removed
because I've got Android studio set up
to automatically remove unused imports
when came back to that code in
onpostexecute again alright so
onpostexecute on post execute looking at
that again the other thing we want to do
i commented out these cut these two
lines here in the previous video
relating to the older aid tap type i'm
going to delete them completely now
because we've got a copy of that in the
previous videos source code and in the
feed adapter class let's remove the
logging for that as well and we can
actually remove the tag as well because
we're no longer going to be using that
and the advantage of doing it that way
is once i remove that line it makes it
quite easy for us to find any logging
because it's the whole I didn't read as
you can see so I'm gonna go ahead and
delete that I think it's now using tag
from another class now in case you're
wondering why the have read there has
disappeared but will remove all those
logging in trees and that should be it
anyway okay so that's the changes to
health feed adapter and check your write
imports at the top I don't need to do
anything here because again I've got
mine set phone to automatically
reconfigure and used in ports but there
might be an Android dot util the log
entry you can there delete as well in
the imports alright so creating menus in
previous versions of Android studio
before version 2.2 involve topping in
the XML but with version 2.2 Google
included a menu designer and that's
actually still available in Android
studio 3 so let's actually see how it
works so we're going to open up our
resource folder on res folder and open
up our menu folder there's a menu folder
there should be a mini folder but
depending on which template you used to
create the project you may or may not
have a folder so if you haven't got one
you want to actually create the new one
so in the case of this particular
project I use the empty activity
template when I created it and that
doesn't create a menu folder but it
isn't a problem as I mentioned we can
actually create one the templates just
created a few few of the files you need
and do you know really just
to get you started but you can do
everything afterwards if you've chosen
the template that doesn't include the
fitti you need so my case I'm going to
just click on the res folder right click
click on you and I'm going to choose
Android resource directory now the
resource type we will set that to menu
when we do that notice that the
directory name changed automatically to
menu as well everything else is fine
Isis so just click on OK we've got a
menu follower as you can see over here
and what we now need is a menu so let's
right click the menu directory itself
click on new we want to select new menu
resource file and for this one this is
going to be a list of the available feed
so I want to call it feeds and let's go
up menu click on ok and we're now in the
menu designer once that loads up now
once again don't be afraid to experiment
with the features of this design of once
we've created our menu I'm gonna be
showing you how to make it appear in an
app so you can have a play creating
menus and just get you know really a
feel for how the designer works now
there are a few things different in this
designer when you're using it for menus
rather than layouts know the obvious one
is it is a is there's a much smaller
choice of things to drag from the
palette just items menus groups and a
couple of other things
now another difference is that there's
no blueprint and no button to display it
the menus don't have constraints so all
the buttons to do with constraints are
also not present no another difference
that isn't immediately obvious is that
you can make more use of the component
tree when creating menus and you're
gonna be seeing that shortly to start
with firms gonna drag three of these
menu thingies these ones here the menu
item things I'm not sure what Google was
actually calling them and one reason I'm
encouraging you to experiment is that I
still can't find any documentation
Middies themselves are documented but
all the examples still air at the XML
been anyway let's just drag three of
these menu items
as you can see me do there I'll just
drop them one below the other you know
don't worry too much about trying to
place them anywhere in particular once
your mouse pointer is over the design
it'll change from in it no entry symbol
to the symbol with the plus which you
probably saw the green plus and you can
just let go at that point
and once you've got two items on the
design you can see a difference in
behaviors so it's possible to add the
third one either to the bottom of the
other to war in between and I'll just
show you again I'll just select another
one so you can select another one notice
it's appearing in orange there and I can
move something and go up and down you
can see the little blue line moving is
or the green line I should say as to
where it's going to go and I'll put that
back anyway for now basically always
harlot Hollings to give you the feedback
about what will happen but at this stage
it doesn't really matter whether you add
the third item to the end or in-between
the existing ones but obviously that
could matter if you're modifying an
existing menu but in my case you saw me
just add one after the other so what I'm
going to do first is from the top I'm
going to give them ID give them both or
all IDs so I'm gonna select the top one
and we'll call this one a menu deviation
for menus then we'll put free the next
one we'll call that one a menu paid and
for the third one will go with a menu
songs well as your publisher to change
the titles as well so let's go back and
do that as well so the title is going to
be free apps for Emma you free for the
second one we're going to go with paid
apps and for the third one we're going
to go with unsurprisingly songs okay
and we've got a warning here about too
hard coding strings but we'll ignore
that for now in the componentry and
that's really all we need to do at this
stage we'll come back and look at some
of the other things we can do in here
but for now I just want to switch over
to the XML XML version or view you
should say the text view and reformat
the code if it's needed you can see
there's a slight change to reform when I
did that I'm going to switch back to
design and I'm going to close the file
it's not necessary to switch back to the
soil but Android studio will open the
father of the moji last left it in so in
my case I want to go back into design
made in the future all right so I'm
going to stop the video here in the next
one we're going to work on adding the
code to make these menus work so I will
see you in the next video